# Functions and program structure

### Functions

Each function definition has the general form

```
return_type function_name(input_type variable_name)
{
    /* something happens here */
}
```

```c
int addNumbers(int number1, int number2)
{
    int sum = number1 + number2;
    return sum;
}
```

> **[info] Functions**
<br/>
>
1. Variable
    * The variable names in the function
definition do not have to match
the names in the function call.
    * We would declare variables in our function.
    * We would call other functions in
our function.
1. Return
    * We would use `return` keyword to return
a value.
    * We would use `void` if we are not passing or not
returning anything.
    * We can pass or receive
any types of variables.
1. Arrays
    * We can pass arrays to
    functions just as we do
    with other variable types.
    * There is a significant difference
    between passing variables to
    functions and passing arrays to functions.
        * When passing a cariable by value,
        a copy of the variable is used in the function.
        The changes to the variables will not affect the original.
        * When passing an array to a function,
        we are actually passing the address of the array.
        The changes to the array will affect the original.
    * When passing 2D arrays as paramerters, the number of the
    columus is required.
1. Declarations
    * Function code would be before `main`.
    * Function declaration would be before `main`.
1. Including functions
    * To use functions in the Standard C
    Library `stdio.h`.
    * We could place our
    own functions in their own
    file and use them in our programs
>

<br/>

### Variable scope

Variables declared outside the
function are unknown to the function.

Variables declared within a
function block are known only to that function.





















